# Some Facts About 26/03/2011

As you may know, the media coverage of the "March for the Alternative" on the 26th of May were grossly distorted and at times completely incorrect.

Quick eye witness report to counter the what the papers are saying. The MET officially said we were allowed to occupy Trafalgar Square as it is a public space. People happily partied and danced to samba for ages and were completely non-violent.

I have lots of bruises and a bit of a limp, but I'm ok. At the "Battle of Trafalgar" I managed to push a couple of officers quite a way back before I realised I was quite far behind police lines, so returned to the crowd. They tried to throttle me with the bandana around my neck so I took it off. We were trying to be non violent, we just wanted them to leave us alone to have our party. It was the police that were lashing out with batons, shields and kicks. They really get stuck in, I think the kicking is the worst, but batons aren't so bad if you deflect the things. It was difficult as most of us were shouting for people to stop throwing bottles, but the police were idiotic to think that wading in and ruining the party wouldn't cause people to kick off. It was quite clear they just wanted to get rid of us, DESPITE the statement the MET issued that we would be allowed to occupy Trafalgar.

Also, to add to this -- you may have read in the news that anarchists destroyed everything. This is true in the sense that the Black bloc went around breaking stuff, but they're a fringe group even for the anarchists, nobody really likes them. I tried to stop one stealing stuff in Fortnums and it boiled down to him getting out of my sight or me forcibly removing the item from his bag.

At the occupation - the vast majority of people there were just being civilly disobedient to make a point - some stuff got knocked over when people were getting in, but as people settled down, people went around tidying up the shop and putting boxes back on shelves. It was a very respectful atmosphere, mixed with anger and chanting. The guys outside tagging the windows were completely unconnected with us and I think most were black bloc and had climbed up or something.

My mate got hit with a paint bomb which is quite funny as his hair was as white as his dad's.

My SO and I *just* missed the clashes in Leicester Square. We left Fortnums when they actually were letting us out, and managed to get past the side of the police lines and get into a shop before the violence. The people who were still in Fortnums after we left got arrested for ``Aggravated Trespassing''. The police really messed it up and managed to get stuck between two angry groups of protesters. That said, generally speaking the police were fine, friendly, and jovial. One we were talking to earlier even said "look, if you're going to do anything wrong, just don't get caught". Heh.

All in all, an exciting day. People have varied views about the effectiveness of different action, but I think civil disobedience makes an important point. Most of the police were nice, most of the protesters were nice, but there were a few bad eggs on either side. I think the most surreal and interesting thing was talking to the riot cops about music and things one second, then pushing against them and fending off blows, then talking again. It was a weird respect.

Some clarifications: 

  * Reports of firebombs are utter utter bullshit.
  * It was completely peaceful until the riot guys came and and started bludgeoning people.
  * When we quite rightly refused to leave they marched forward and lashed out with their batons.
  * The option to leave was not clear for ages and by that time it was not an option.
  * When they were not storming forward, we had fairly civil chats, but we made it clear that we had no intention of leaving.
  * They cited graffiti (was there earlier) and violence (there was no violence at Trafalgar until the police started pushing us around) as the reasons which we should leave.
  * As we were let out, one by one, we were photographed by FIT (forced to remove hats, scarfs, etc), and arrested us for ``Breach of the Peace''.
  * If people were kicking up a fuss, they were taken to the station and booked.
  * If we were polite, they drove us around for a while and ditched us in some random part of London with no regards to the fact that we had no idea where we were, many had no money or transport, and we were split up   from friends (and by this time our phones had run out of juice), so it was pretty fucked, as I had to limp around fucking Vauxhall and find a bus station.
  * During the day, the police were pretty ok, let people out and things, but Trafalgar Square was utterly fucked. They instigated the violence by charging into crowds of peaceful protesters, they started pushing a large crowd around for fuck all reason, of course people are going to react violently. I didn't see any attacks on the olympic clock, which was their excuse for going in. It was quite clear that they didn't want us there in the first place and were willing to resort to violent measures in order to remove us.
  
This is the most accurate article I've read that summarises events. [What Really Happened in Trafalgar Square](http://www.newstatesman.com/blogs/laurie-penny/2011/03/trafalgar-square-police-young)